.\" mate-session-properties manual page.
.\" (C) 2009-2010 Vincent Untz (vuntz@gnome.org)
.\"
.TH MATE-SESSION-PROPERTIES 1 "11 February 2014" "MATE Desktop Environment"
.\" Please adjust this date when revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH "NAME"
mate-session-properties \- Configure applications to start on login.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B mate-session-properties
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The \fBmate-session-properties\fP program enables the users to
configure what applications should be started on login, in addition to
the default startup applications configured on the system.
.PP
It also proposes an interface to save a snapshot of the currently
running applications so that they can automatically be restored to
their current state on your next MATE session.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-\-display=DISPLAY\fR
X display to use.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Output version information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-?, -h, \-\-help\fR
Print standard command line options.
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-all\fR
Print all command line options.
.SH "BUGS"
.SS Should you encounter any bugs, they may be reported at: 
http://github.com/mate-desktop/mate-session/issues
.SH "AUTHORS"
.SS This Manual page was originally written for gnome-session by:
.nf
Vincent Untz <vuntz@gnome.org> (2009-2010)
.fi
.SS It has been updated for the MATE Desktop Environment by:
Adam Erdman <hekel@archlinux.info> (2014)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SS Further information may also be available at: http://wiki.mate-desktop.org/docs
.P
.BR mate-session(1),
.BR mate-session-save(1),
.BR mate-wm(1)
