.\" Manual page for mate-session
.\" (C) 2000 Miguel de Icaza (miguel@helixcode.com)
.\" (C) 2009-2010 Vincent Untz (vuntz@gnome.org)
.TH MATE-SESSION 1 "11 February 2014" "MATE Desktop Environment"
.\" Please adjust this date when revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH "NAME"
mate-session \- Start the MATE Desktop Environment.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B mate-session [OPTIONS]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBmate-session\fP program starts up the MATE desktop environment. This command is typically executed by your Login/Display Manager (like GDM, LXDM, XDM, SLiM, or from your X startup scripts like .xinitrc). It will load either your saved session, or it will provide a default session for the user as defined by the system administrator (or the default MATE installation on your system).
.PP
The default session is defined in the dconf keys under
.BI / org / mate / desktop / session /
.br
When saving a session, \fBmate-session\fP saves the currently running applications in the \fB~/.config/mate-session/saved-session\fP directory of the users /home.
.PP
\fBmate-session\fP is an X11 session manager. It can manage MATE applications as well as any other X11 SM compliant ones.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS The following options are supported:
.TP
\fB\-a, \-\-autostart=DIR\fR
Start all applications defined in "\fBDIR\fP", instead of starting the applications defined in 
.BI / org / mate / desktop / session / default\-session
.br
Multiple \fB\-\-autostart\fP options can be passed.
.TP
\fB\-f, \-\-failsafe\fR
Run in fail-safe mode. User-specified applications will not be started.
.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Enable debugging code.
.TP
\fB\-\-display=DISPLAY\fR
X display to use.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Output version information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-?, -h, \-\-help\fR
Print standard command line options.
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-all\fR
Print all command line options.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.SS \fBmate-session\fP sets several environment variables for the use of its child processes:
.PP
.B "SESSION_MANAGER"
.IP
This variable is used by session-manager aware clients to contact mate-session.
.PP
.B "DISPLAY"
.IP
This variable is set to the X display being used by \fBmate-session\fP. Note that if the \-\-display option is used this might be different from the setting of the environment variable when mate-session is invoked.

.SH "FILES"
.PP
.nf
.B ~/.config/autostart
.B /usr/share/autostart
.B /usr/share/mate/autostart
.fi
.IP
The applications defined in the above directories will be started on login. \fBmate-session-properties(1)\fP can be used to easily configure them.
.PP
.B ~/.config/mate-session/saved-session
.IP
This directory contains the list of applications of the saved session.
.SH "BUGS"
.SS Should you encounter any bugs, they may be reported at: 
http://github.com/mate-desktop/mate-session/issues
.SH "AUTHORS"
.SS This Manual page was originally written for gnome-session by:
.nf
Miguel de Icaza <miguel@helixcode.com> (2000)
Vincent Untz <vuntz@gnome.org> (2009-2010)
.fi
.SS It has been updated for the MATE Desktop Environment by:
Adam Erdman <hekel@archlinux.info> (2014)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SS Further information may also be available at: http://wiki.mate-desktop.org/docs
.P
.BR mate-session-properties(1),
.BR mate-session-save(1),
.BR mate-wm(1)
